In computer engineering, computer architecture is a set of rules 
and methods that describe the functionality, organization, and implementation 
of computer systems. The architecture of a system refers to its structure in 
terms of separately specified components of that system and their interrelationships.
Some definitions of architecture define it as describing the capabilities and programming 
model of a computer but not a particular implementation. In other definitions computer architecture 
involves instruction set architecture design, microarchitecture design, logic design, and implementation.


Computer architectures represent the means of interconnectivity for a computer's hardware components as well as the mode of 
data transfer and processing exhibited. Different computer architecture configurations have been developed to speed 
up the movement of data, allowing for increased data processing. 
The basic architecture has the CPU at the core with a main memory and input/output system on either side of the CPU.
As,
Printer -> i/O -> CPU -> Memory
A second computer configuration is the central input/output controller.

CPU -> I/O <-Printer -> memory

A third computer architecture uses the main memory as the location 
in the computer system from which all data and instructions 
flow in and out. A fourth computer architecture uses a common data 
and control bus to interconnect all devices making up a computer system. 
An improvement on the single shared central bus architecture is the dual bus architecture. 
These architecture either separates data and control over the two buses or shares them to 
increase overall performance.

As such, the computer architecture governs the design of a family of computers 
and defines the logical interface that is targeted by programming languages 
and their compilers. The organization determines the mix of functional 
units of which the system is composed and the structure of their interconnectivity. 
The architecture semantics is the meaning of what the systems do under user direction 
and how their functional units are controlled to work together.

Ability of a system (such as a database system) to work with or use the parts 
or equipment of another system.Interoperability is a property referring to the ability 
of diverse systems and organizations to work together. Infrastructures are public utilities 
and facilities that are typically used by large numbers of different users, such as the Internet
and libraries. The way infrastructures are used typically changes over time in a process of 
evolution and adaptation. The ability of information and service 
harvesting, discovery, sharing, dissemination, management, 
preservation, can be facilitated with the interoperable infrastructure.