Data Replication refers to the process of storing
and maintaining numerous copies of your crucial 
data across different machines. It helps organizations
ensure high data availability and accessibility at all 
times, therefore allowing organizations to access and recover 
data even during a disaster or data loss.

Benefits:
The following are some of the key benefits of replicating your data:

1.Better Application Reliability
2.Better Transactional Commit Performance
3.Better Read Performance
4.Data Durability Guarantee
5.Robust Data Recovery

1.Better Application Reliability:
Replicating your data across various machines 
helps ensure that you can access the data with 
ease, even when a hardware or machinery failure occurs, 
thereby boosting the reliability of your system.

2.Better Transactional Commit Performance:
When you’re working with transactional data, 
you need to monitor various synchronous processes 
to ensure that the data updation takes place everywhere 
at the same time. Hence, your application must write the 
commit before the control threads can continue the tasks.

3.Better Read Performance
With replication in place, users can route data reads across 
numerous machines that are a part of the network, thereby improving 
upon the read performance of your application. Hence, readers working on 
remote networks can fetch and read data with ease. It also helps reduce the cache 
missings & lower the input/output operations.

4.Data Durability Guarantee
Replication helps boost and ensure robust data durability, 
as it results in data changes/updation taking place on multiple machines 
simultaneously, instead of a single computer. It thereby provides more processing & computation power,
by leveraging numerous CPUs and disks to ensure that the replication,
transformation and loading processes take place correctly.

5.Robust Data Recovery
Replication allows users to maintain backups of their data 
that update in real-time, thereby allowing them to access 
current and up-to-date data, even during any failures/ data losses.

